FIX / DOC Add support ElementalArea in DataObject (#978)
silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental: docs/en/examples/elementalarea_with_dataobject.md

use SilverStripe\Admin\ModelAdmin;

class BlogPostsAdmin extends ModelAdmin
{
    private static string $url_segment = 'blog-posts-admin';

    private static string $menu_title = 'Blog Posts';

    private static string $menu_icon_class = 'font-icon-block-banner';

    private static array $managed_models = [
        BlogPost::class,
    ];
}
```

`$managed_models` - this static variable connects `BlogPostAdmin` with `BlogPost`, which will be created in the following code.\
When you create a `DataObject` you should define the connection between your `DataObject` and `ElementalArea` by adding `$has_one` relationship.\
In this example `BlogPost` will have one `ElementalArea`.

**app/src/Models/BlogPost.php**

```php
<?php

namespace App\Models;

use App\Admins\BlogPostsAdmin;
use DNADesign\Elemental\Models\ElementalArea;
use SilverStripe\Control\Controller;
use SilverStripe\ORM\DataObject;
use SilverStripe\Versioned\Versioned;

class BlogPost extends DataObject
{
    private static string $table_name = 'BlogPost';

    private static $has_one = [
        'ElementalArea' => ElementalArea::class,
    ];

    private static $owns = ['ElementalArea'];

    // ...
}
 ```

> If you are using `ElementalArea` together with `DataObject`, it is important to define a following method in the class.\
> The `CMSEditLink()` method should be defined to generate a link for opening the editing section of the particular `BlogPost`.\
> `BaseElement` uses a link, that was created in `CMSEditLink()` method in `BlogPost` class, to generate new links for opening the editing section of the particular element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using `ElementalArea` together with `DataObject`, it is important to define the `CMSEditLink()` method in the class.\
`BaseElement::CMSEditLink()` relies on a valid CMS link being available in the parent `DataObject` - in this case, `BlogPost`. It is used to navigate directly to the editing section of the particular element (for example in the "Content blocks in use" report).

Note that for nested `GridField`s this method can get more complicated. Similarly, if your class is used in multiple admins, you will have to choose one to be the canonical admin section for the purposes of this method. This example only shows the simplest case, where the `BlogPost` class is used directly in `BlogPostsAdmin`.
```
The language here was a bit confusing - I _think_ this is what you were trying to say, but if I got it wrong just let me know and we can figure out a clear way to communicate the correct message.

I've also added a note here about some edge cases developers may encounter which aren't covered in this example.

Author: I think we don't need this -> (for example in the "Content blocks in use" report). We don't have any code examples related to "Content blocks in use"

Reviewer: Fair enough. My intention was to give context to the reason `CMSEditLink()` is needed on the `DataObject` subclass, but if you don't think that part's needed I'm okay leaving it out.

```php
// ...

class BlogPost extends DataObject
{
    // ...

    public function CMSEditLink()
    {
        // In this example we use BlogPostsAdmin class as Controller
        $admin = BlogPostsAdmin::singleton();

        // Makes link more readable. Instead App\Models\ BlogPost, we get App-Models-BlogPost
        $sanitisedClassname = str_replace('\\', '-', $this->ClassName);

        // Returns link to editing section with elements
        return Controller::join_links(
            $admin->Link($sanitisedClassname),
            'EditForm/field/',
            $sanitisedClassname,
            'item',
            $this->ID,
        );
    }

    // ...
}

```

And finally, add `ElementalAreasExtension` to the `DataObject`

**app/_config/elemental.yml**

```yml
App\Models\BlogPost:
  extensions: 
    - DNADesign\Elemental\Extensions\ElementalAreasExtension
```

## Related Documentation

> * [Preview](https://docs.silverstripe.org/en/4/developer_guides/customising_the_admin_interface/preview/)\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Preview](https://docs.silverstripe.org/en/4/developer_guides/customising_the_admin_interface/preview/)
```
We don't want a new line here - it looks a bit awkward.

> ---
> title: Using ElementalArea with DataObject
> summary: Learn how to add ElementalArea to your models and manage it in a ModalAdmin
> ---
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Title and summary are used in the docs in framework, because those get displayed on silverstripe.org. This isn't the case for this module (e.g. see https://raw.githubusercontent.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental/4/docs/en/searching-blocks.md)

# Using ElementalArea with DataObject

## Creating Model and adding ElementalArea

> In this example the class BlogPost will be created, it will extend the DataObject class. Also a new BlogPost Admin section will be created in the Admin panel where CMS users can manage the BlogPosts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example the class `BlogPost` will be created, it will extend the `DataObject` class. Also a new `BlogPost` Admin section will be created in the Admin panel where CMS users can manage the `BlogPost`s.

Note that you don't necessarily need to create an admin section to apply an `ElementalArea` to a `DataObject` - for example you could have a `DataObject` attached to a page.
```
All references to class names, methods, or properties should be quoted with backticks (\`).

Author: I'm not sure, that we can split word `BlogPost`s for formatting.

Let's look at an example:

**app/src/Admins/BlogPostsAdmin.php**

```php
<?php

namespace App\Admins;

use App\Models\BlogPost;
use SilverStripe\Admin\ModelAdmin;

class BlogPostsAdmin extends ModelAdmin
{

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    private static string $url_segment = 'blog-posts-admin';

    private static string $menu_title = 'Blog Posts';

    private static string $menu_icon_class = 'font-icon-block-banner';

    private static array $managed_models = [
        BlogPost::class,
    ];
}
```

> `$managed_models` - this static variable connects BlogPostAdmin with BlogPost, which will be created in the following code.
> When you create a DataObject you should define the connection between your DataObject and ElementalArea by adding `$has_one` relationship.
> In this example BlogPost will have one ElementalArea.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$managed_models` - this static variable connects `BlogPostAdmin` with `BlogPost`, which will be created in the following code.
When you create a `DataObject` you should define the connection between your `DataObject` and `ElementalArea` by adding `$has_one` relationship.
In this example `BlogPost` will have one `ElementalArea`.
```

Reviewer: Note that the new lines won't actually appear when the file is rendered - if your intention is for each of these to display on a new line, you'll need to add two spaces at the end of the lines (https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax#line-breaks).
I won't repeat this comment elsewhere but it applies to all such situations in the document.

**app/src/Models/BlogPost.php**

```php
<?php

namespace App\Models;

use App\Admins\BlogPostsAdmin;
use DNADesign\Elemental\Models\ElementalArea;
use SilverStripe\Control\Controller;
use SilverStripe\ORM\DataObject;
use SilverStripe\Versioned\Versioned;

class BlogPost extends DataObject
{
    private static string $table_name = 'BlogPost';

    private static $extensions = [

>         Versioned::class,

Reviewer: Why are we explicitly saying this is `Versioned`? This should work whether the dataobject is `Versioned` or not, shouldn't it?

Author: I follow Steve's comment https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental/pull/978#pullrequestreview-955619575

Reviewer: I disagree with Steve's comment :p
The block being `Versioned` should be entirely independent of the page or `DataObject` being `Versioned`.
The `DataObject` is allowed to be unversioned. The block can still have its internal draft and published states, and that's fine. Just double check that if the object (in this case `BlogPost` is saved, that publishes any unpublished blocks (which I think it will by virtue of the `$owns` config).

    ];

> 
>     private static array $db = [
>         'Title' => 'Varchar(255)',
>         'Content' => 'HTMLText',
>     ];

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
No need to include this in the example.

    private static $has_one = [
        'ElementalArea' => ElementalArea::class,
    ];

    private static $owns = ['ElementalArea'];

    // ...
}
 ```

> If you are using ElementalArea together with DataObject, it is important to define a few following methods in the class.
> First of all, the CMSEditLink() method should be defined to generate a link for opening the editing section of the particular BlogPost.
> BaseElement uses a link, that was created in CMSEditLink() method in BlogPost class, to generate new links for opening the editing section of the particular Element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using `ElementalArea` together with `DataObject`, there are some important methods to implement on the class.
First of all, the `CMSEditLink()` method should be defined to generate a link for opening the editing section of the particular `BlogPost`.
`BaseElement` uses a link, that was created in `CMSEditLink()` method in the `BlogPost` class, to generate new links for opening the editing section of the particular element.

Note that for nested `GridField`s this method can get more complicated. Similarly, if your class is used in multiple admins, you will have to choose one to be the canonical admin section for the purposes of this method. This example only shows the simplest case, where the `BlogPost` class is used directly in `BlogPostsAdmin`.
```

Reviewer: Why is `CMSEditLink()` needed? If this is just for preview purposes, we can leave it out of this documentation and just refer to the new preview documentation.
I think there's a report that uses it, right? If so then yeah definitely leave it in but can you please just confirm that for me?

Author: No, user should define CMSEditLink() not for preview purpose.

Reviewer: Sweet, that's fine then 👍

```php
// ...

class BlogPost extends DataObject
{
    // ...

    public function CMSEditLink()
    {
        // In this example we use BlogPostsAdmin class as Controller
        $admin = BlogPostsAdmin::singleton();

        // Makes link more readable. Instead App\Models\ BlogPost, we get App-Models-BlogPost
        $sanitisedClassname = str_replace('\\', '-', $this->ClassName);

        // Returns link to editing section with elements
        return Controller::join_links(
            $admin->Link($sanitisedClassname),
            'EditForm/field/',
            $sanitisedClassname,
            'item',
            $this->ID,
        );
    }

    // ...
}

```

> Method Link() doesn't exist in DataObject class, so you should define this method in your class. You should add the canArchive() method in your class as well to set rules for the canDelete() method.
> You should also define the AbsoluteLink() method for opening the tabs in the Elements.
> Use the following code as an example of how to simply create these methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Link()` method doesn't exist in the`DataObject` class, so you should define this method in your class. You should add the `canArchive()` method in your class as well to set rules for the `canDelete()` method.
You should also define the `AbsoluteLink()` method for opening the tabs in the elements.
Use the following code as an example of a simple implementation of these methods.
```

Reviewer: Why is `Link()` needed? If this is just for preview purposes, we can leave it out of this documentation and just refer to the new preview documentation.
Also what do you mean by "opening the tabs in the elements"?

Author: Since BaseElement implemented CMSPreviewable before (in this version CMSPreviewable interface was removed from  the BaseElement class), we have :
```php
                HiddenField::create('LiveLink', false, Director::absoluteURL($this->Link())),
                HiddenField::create('StageLink', false, Director::absoluteURL($this->PreviewLink())),
  ```
  in public function getCMSFields(). I mentioned this before and I also said that we should refactor BaseElement class and remove all unused methods.

Reviewer: These methods are used in the next minor so that's fine.
If the issue is that `BaseElement::Link()` calls `$this->getPage()->Link()` then there should be a check in there. Something like this:

```php
if (ClassInfo::hasMethod($page, 'Link')) {
    $link = $page->Link($action);
    // do any transformations on the link e.g. concatenations
    return $link;
}

return null;
```

That way we're not imposing a link on the dataobject where it doesn't make sense to have one.

Author: If we have Element that has additional tabs in Element, tab itself has link like "http://localhost.com/admin/blog-posts-admin/App-Models-BlogPost/EditForm/field/App-Models-BlogPost/item/4/ItemEditForm/field/ElementalArea/item/9/edit**#Root_Settings**"

Reviewer: Oh, you mean tabs in the CMS edit form! Okay. That won't come from the `Link()` method on the `Page`  though, surely. Otherwise it would looks like this for blocks pages:
`http://localhost.com/some-page-path/ItemEditForm/field/ElementalArea/item/9/edit#Root_Settings`
I think this is coming from the form itself, rather than relying on some `Link()` method to be defined on the `DataObject` subclass that owns the element. I could even see it _maybe_ using `CMSEditLink`, but `Link()` is for front-end purposes.

Reviewer: I've tested this locally without `Link()` on the `BlogPost` class - so long as there's a check like the one I mention above it works fine even with tabs in the CMS.

```php
// ...

class BlogPost extends DataObject
{
    // ...

    public function Link($action = null)
    {
        $admin = BlogPostsAdmin::singleton();

        return $this->ID
            ? Controller::join_links(
                $admin->Link(str_replace('\\', '-', $this->ClassName)),
                $this->ID
                )
            : null;
    }

>     public function canArchive($member = null)

Reviewer: Why are we explicitly mentioning `canArchive` here? The class doesn't have to be `Versioned`.

Author: Method canDelete() in BaseElement class invoke method canArchive on $page. Probably, it's expected that page is Versioned. And from Steve's comment https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental/pull/978#pullrequestreview-955619575, it's expected that possibly DataObject instance can be Versioned as well.

Reviewer: It would be nicer if you add a check in `BaseElement` - something like
```php
if ($page->hasExtension(Versioned::class)) {
    // use $page->canArchive()
} else {
    // use $page->canDelete()
}
```

    {
        return $this->canDelete($member);
    }

    public function AbsoluteLink($action = null)
    {
        return null;
    }
}

```

> Add ElementalAreasExtension to the DataObject

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add `ElementalAreasExtension` to the `DataObject`
```

**app/_config/elemental.yml**

```yml
App\Models\BlogPost:
  extensions: 
    - DNADesign\Elemental\Extensions\ElementalAreasExtension
```

## Related Documentation

> * [Preview](https://docs.silverstripe.org/en/4/developer_guides/customising_the_admin_interface/preview/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Preview](https://docs.silverstripe.org/en/4/developer_guides/customising_the_admin_interface/preview/) (note that this requires at least `silverstripe/admin` 4.11.0 and `dnadesign/silverstripe-elemental` 4.9.0.
```

    ];

    private static $has_one = [
        'ElementalArea' => ElementalArea::class,
    ];

    // ...
}
 ```

If you are using ElementalArea together with DataObject, it is important to define a few following methods in the class.
First of all, CMSEditLink() method should be defined to generate link for opening editing section of the particular BlogPost. 
BaseElement uses link, that was created in CMSEditLink() method in BlogPost class, to generate new links for opening editing section of the particular Element.

```php
// ...

class BlogPost extends DataObject
{
    // ...

    public function CMSEditLink()
    {
        // In this example we use BlogPostsAdmin class as Controller
        $admin = BlogPostsAdmin::singleton();

        // Makes link more readable. Instead App\Models\ BlogPost, we get App-Models-BlogPost
        $sanitisedClassname = str_replace('\\', '-', $this->ClassName);

        // Returns link to editing section with elements
        return Controller::join_links(
            $admin->Link($sanitisedClassname),
            'EditForm/field/',
            $sanitisedClassname,
            'item',
            $this->ID,
        );
    }

    // ...
}

```

> Method Link() doesn't exist in DataObject class, so you should define this method in your class. Since PreviewLink() method of BaseElement uses Link() method to generate Preview window in the BlogPost Admin section. Note: making a DataObject previewable requires silverstripe/admin 1.10 or later.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, actually think it may be 1.11 - https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-admin/pull/1250/commits/4603e3c35571485ec8c0bb18900985ff1eaeb7c4 isn't in 1.10

```suggestion
Method Link() doesn't exist in DataObject class, so you should define this method in your class. Since PreviewLink() method of BaseElement uses Link() method to generate Preview window in the BlogPost Admin section. Note: making a DataObject previewable requires silverstripe/admin 1.11 or later.
```

> You should add canArchive() method in your class as well to set rules for canDalete() method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should add canArchive() method in your class as well to set rules for canDelete() method.
```
